adds move-merge-delete-pages.md (#1115)
publiccodenet/about: activities/documentation/move-merge-delete-pages.md

---
type: resource
---

# Moving, merging and deleting pages

> As an open organization dedicated to the long term sustainability of the public code ecosystem, our ambition is to reliably serve readers with the information they were looking for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an [open organization](../../organization/cultural-values.md) dedicated to the long term sustainability of the public code ecosystem, our ambition is to reliably serve readers with the information they were looking for.
```

---
type: resource
---

# Moving, merging and deleting pages

As an [open organization](../../organization/cultural-values.md) dedicated to the long term sustainability of the public code ecosystem, our ambition is to reliably serve readers with the information they were looking for.
This means we try never to have a url resolve to a `404:Page not found`.

That being said, our content will evolve over time, and we may need to move, merge and delete pages.
What follows is how we use redirects to handle these different situations.

## How redirects work in Jekyll

There are types of redirects in Jekyll - a redirect from, and a redirect to.

A `redirect_to` is an instruction on the old page, that when the old url is clicked, the redirect instruction on the old page automatically forwards to the new page.
This works a bit like post arriving at your old home, and being forwarded to your new address.
A redirect to can only redirect to one other new page.

> Note: this mean a file needs to be kept in the old location.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: this means a file needs to be kept in the old location.
```

A `redirect_from` can rewrite urls from many other old pages.
Note: this only works with files in the same repository (we can't change someone else's address book!) - but means the old file can be deleted.

It is technically possible to simultaneously put a `redirect_to` in the old page and `redirect_from` in the new page, providing both pages are in the same repository, but it does not add any value.

## How to add a redirect to a page

Redirect instructions can be included in the front matter by including one of these alternatives:

`redirect_to: [url link]`

`redirect_from: [url link]`

```
redirect_from:
    - [url link 1]
    - [url link 2]
    - [url link 3]
```

## Redirecting pages

When a page url changes, but it remains in the same repository (it is moved to a different directory or is renamed) a `redirect_from` should be used.

When a page is moved to a different repository a `redirect_to` should be used.

When a page is merged with another page, use `redirect_from` if it is in the same repository, and a `redirect_to` if it is in a different repository.

When content outgrows its location and moves to its own page, consider using a hyperlink.

> When a page is split into new pages, and the old page becomes redundant, consider whether it could become an index or short stub referencing the new pages.

Reviewer 2: There's no need to keep the old page as an index or stub if the old page and the new pages are all already included in an index.
```suggestion
When a page is split into new pages, and the old page becomes redundant, redirect to the index that lists the new pages.
```

> If a redirect is necessary - aim to redirect to the most relevant page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a redirect is necessary, redirect to the most relevant page.
```

> ## Deleting pages

Reviewer 2: It's not clear to me from the introduction to this page or this section whether:
- there's a preference for redirection over deletion where possible
- whether these instructions about deleted pages also apply to pages deleted because the content was split (they shouldn't, because there ought to be a redirect to the index)

Reviewer: * I don't think we have any such preferences. Redirections should be used when content is moved, not removed. And we should remove content that for some reason is no longer canonical truth and not worth storing in a public archive outside the git history.
* Semantically, I don't see content moved to several new pages as being deleted (even if I technically hit the delete button on my keyboard and rewrite it from scratch in the pages it gets split to).
